== README

* Project Overview
This project is an online bookstore management system built with Ruby on Rails 4.2. It includes features such as bookstore and book management, tracking purchases, calculating revenue, and generating reports. Additionally, the system includes an admin dashboard that provides metrics like the total number of bookstores, books, and revenue trends. Background jobs are used to generate monthly sales reports and automatically email them to bookstore managers.

* Features
Bookstore Management: Allows creation, updating, and deletion of bookstores.
Book Management: Enables the addition, updating, and deletion of books in bookstores.
Purchases: Purchases books from bookstores and adds a 5% markup to the price, saving the data in the purchases table.
Admin Dashboard: Displays key metrics such as total bookstores, total books, revenue trends, and best-performing bookstores.
Revenue Calculation: Displays revenue by subtracting the 5% markup added to the purchase price.
Background Jobs: Monthly sales reports are generated using Sidekiq and emailed to bookstore managers.
Technologies Used
Ruby on Rails 4.2
PostgreSQL (for database)
Sidekiq (for background jobs)
CanCanCan (for authorization)
ActionMailer (for sending emails)
Chartkick (for visualizing revenue trends)


** Setup Instructions

* Prerequisites
Ruby 2.6+ (Check Ruby version: ruby -v)
Rails 4.2 (Check Rails version: rails -v)
PostgreSQL (Make sure PostgreSQL is installed and running)
Redis (for Sidekiq background jobs)

** Steps to Set Up

* Clone the repository:

bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/bookstore-management-system.git
cd bookstore-management-system
Install dependencies:

* Install Ruby gems:
bash
bundle install

* Install JavaScript dependencies (if any):
bash
yarn install
Set up the database:

* Create and migrate the database:
bash
rake db:create
rake db:migrate
rake db:seed  # (Optional, to seed sample data)

** Set up Sidekiq (for background jobs):

Install Redis if not already installed. On macOS, you can use Homebrew:
bash
brew install redis (macOS)

* Start Redis server:
bash
redis-server

* Start the Rails server:
bash
rails server

* Start Sidekiq (in a separate terminal window):

bash
bundle exec sidekiq


Access the application: Visit http://localhost:3000 to access the application.

Access the admin dashboard: After logging in as an admin user, visit http://localhost:3000/admin_dashboard to view the metrics.

* Install gems
bundle _1.17.3_ install

